---
hrs_structure:
  division: '2'
  volume: '11'
  title: '27'
  chapter: '490'
  section: '490:2-312'
type: hrs_section
tags:
  - Business
menu:
  hrs:
    identifier: HRS_0490-0002-0312
    parent: HRS0490
    name: '490:2-312 Warranty of title and against infringement; buyer''s'
weight: 76265
title: Warranty of title and against infringement; buyer's
full_title: '490:2-312 Warranty of title and against infringement; buyer''s'
---
**ยง490:2-312** Warranty of title and against infringement; buyer's obligation against infringement. (1) Subject to subsection (2) there is in a contract for sale a warranty by the seller that:

(a) The title conveyed shall be good, and its transfer rightful; and

(b) The goods shall be delivered free from any security interest or other lien or encumbrance of which the buyer at the time of contracting has no knowledge.

(2) A warranty under subsection (1) will be excluded or modified only by specific language or by circumstances which give the buyer reason to know that the person selling does not claim title in himself or that he is purporting to sell only such right or title as he or a third person may have.

(3) Unless otherwise agreed a seller who is a merchant regularly dealing in goods of the kind warrants that the goods shall be delivered free of the rightful claim of any third person by way of infringement or the like but a buyer who furnishes specifications to the seller must hold the seller harmless against any such claim which arises out of compliance with the specifications. [L 1965, c 208, ยง2-312; [HRS ยง490:2-312](/title-27/chapter-490/section-490-2-312/)]

Case Notes

Subsection (2) cited with respect to sale of a motor vehicle. 2 H. App. 308, 631 P.2d 594.

Seller without title to vehicle not precluded from being a "seller". 4 H. App. 265, 664 P.2d 755.