---
hrs_structure:
  division: '2'
  volume: '11'
  title: '27'
  chapter: '490'
  section: '490:9-308'
type: hrs_section
tags:
  - Business
menu:
  hrs:
    identifier: HRS_0490-0009-0308
    parent: HRS0490
    name: '490:9-308 When security interest or agricultural lien is'
weight: 78495
title: When security interest or agricultural lien is
full_title: '490:9-308 When security interest or agricultural lien is'
---
**Subpart 2\. Perfection**

**ยง490:9-308 When security interest or agricultural lien is perfected; continuity of perfection.** (a) Except as otherwise provided in this section and section 490:9-309, a security interest is perfected if it has attached and all of the applicable requirements for perfection in sections 490:9-310 through 490:9-316 have been satisfied. A security interest is perfected when it attaches if the applicable requirements are satisfied before the security interest attaches.

(b) An agricultural lien is perfected if it has become effective and all of the applicable requirements for perfection in section 490:9-310 have been satisfied. An agricultural lien is perfected when it becomes effective if the applicable requirements are satisfied before the agricultural lien becomes effective.

(c) A security interest or agricultural lien is perfected continuously if it is originally perfected by one method under this article and is later perfected by another method under this article, without an intermediate period when it was unperfected.

(d) Perfection of a security interest in collateral also perfects a security interest in a supporting obligation for the collateral.

(e) Perfection of a security interest in a right to payment or performance also perfects a security interest in a security interest, mortgage, or other lien on personal or real property securing the right.

(f) Perfection of a security interest in a securities account also perfects a security interest in the security entitlements carried in the securities account.

(g) Perfection of a security interest in a commodity account also perfects a security interest in the commodity contracts carried in the commodity account. [L 2000, c 241, pt of ยง1]