---
hrs_structure:
  division: '2'
  volume: '11'
  title: '27'
  chapter: '490'
  section: '490:4-105'
type: hrs_section
tags:
  - Business
menu:
  hrs:
    identifier: HRS_0490-0004-0105
    parent: HRS0490
    name: '490:4-105 "Bank"; "depositary bank"; "payor bank";'
weight: 77420
title: '"Bank"; "depositary bank"; "payor bank";'
full_title: '490:4-105 "Bank"; "depositary bank"; "payor bank";'
---
**§490:4-105 "Bank"; "depositary bank"; "payor bank"; "intermediary bank"; "collecting bank"; "presenting bank".** In this article:

(1) "Bank" means a person engaged in the business of banking, including a savings bank, savings and loan association, credit union, or trust company;

(2) "Depositary bank" means the first bank to take an item even though it is also the payor bank, unless the item is presented for immediate payment over the counter;

(3) "Payor bank" means a bank that is the drawee of a draft;

(4) "Intermediary bank" means a bank to which an item is transferred in course of collection except the depositary or payor bank;

(5) "Collecting bank" means a bank handling an item for collection, except the payor bank;

(6) "Presenting bank" means a bank presenting an item, except a payor bank. [L 1965, c 208, §4-105; [HRS §490:4-105](/title-27/chapter-490/section-490-4-105/); am L 1991, c 118, pt of §4] part of a day during which the receiving bank is open for the receipt, processing, and transmittal of payment orders and cancellations and amendments of payment orders.

(5) "Funds-transfer system" means a wire transfer network, automated clearinghouse, or other communication system of a clearinghouse or other association of banks through which a payment order by a bank may be transmitted to the bank to which the order is addressed.

(6) "Good faith" means honesty in fact and the observance of reasonable commercial standards of fair dealing.

(7) "Prove" with respect to a fact means to meet the burden of establishing the fact (section 490:1-201).

(b) Other definitions applying to this article and the sections in which they appear are:

"Acceptance". Section 490:4A-209.

"Beneficiary". Section 490:4A-103.

"Beneficiary's bank". Section 490:4A-103.

"Executed". Section 490:4A-301.

"Execution date". Section 490:4A-301.

"Funds transfer". Section 490:4A-104.

"Funds-transfer system rule". Section 490:4A-501.

"Intermediate bank". Section 490:4A-104.

"Originator". Section 490:4A-104.

"Originator's bank". Section 490:4A-104.

"Payment by beneficiary's bank to beneficiary". Section 490:4A-405.

"Payment by originator to beneficiary". Section 490:4A-406.

"Payment by sender to receiving bank". Section 490:4A-403.

"Payment date". Section 490:4A-401.

"Payment order". Section 490:4A-103.

"Receiving bank". Section 490:4A-103.

"Security procedure". Section 490:4A-201.

"Sender". Section 490:4A-103.

(c) The following definitions in article 4 apply to this article:

"Clearing-house". Section 490:4-104.

"Item". Section 490:4-104.

"Suspends payments". Section 490:4-104.

(d) In addition, article 1 contains general definitions and principles of construction and interpretation applicable throughout this article. [L 1991, c 41, pt of §1; am L 2004, c 162, §12]