---
hrs_structure:
  division: '2'
  volume: '11'
  title: '27'
  chapter: '490'
  section: '490:4-104'
type: hrs_section
tags:
  - Business
menu:
  hrs:
    identifier: HRS_0490-0004A-0104
    parent: HRS0490
    name: '490:4-104 Definitions and index of definitions'
weight: 77620
title: Definitions and index of definitions
full_title: '490:4-104 Definitions and index of definitions'
---
**§490:4A-104 Funds transfer--definitions.** In this article:

(1) "Funds transfer" means the series of transactions, beginning with the originator's payment order, made for the purpose of making payment to the beneficiary of the order. The term includes any payment order issued by the originator's bank or an intermediary bank intended to carry out the originator's payment order. A funds transfer is completed by acceptance by the beneficiary's bank of a payment order for the benefit of the beneficiary of the originator's payment order.

(2) "Intermediary bank" means a receiving bank other than the originator's bank or the beneficiary's bank.

(3) "Originator" means the sender of the first payment order in a funds transfer.

(4) "Originator's bank" means (i) the receiving bank to which the payment order of the originator is issued if the originator is not a bank, or (ii) the originator if the originator is a bank. [L 1991, c 41, pt of §1]or uncertificated securities (section 490:8-102), or other certificates, statements, or the like are to be received by the drawee or other payor before acceptance or payment of the draft;

(7) "Draft" means a draft as defined in section 490:3-104 or an item, other than an instrument, that is an order;

(8) "Drawee" means a person ordered in a draft to make payment;

(9) "Item" means an instrument or a promise or order to pay money handled by a bank for collection or payment. The term does not include a payment order governed by article 4A or a credit or debit card slip;

(10) "Midnight deadline" with respect to a bank is midnight on its next banking day following the banking day on which it receives the relevant item or notice or from which the time for taking action commences to run, whichever is later;

(11) "Settle" means to pay in cash, by clearing-house settlement, in a charge or credit or by remittance, or otherwise as agreed. A settlement may be either provisional or final;

(12) "Suspends payments" with respect to a bank means that it has been closed by order of the supervisory authorities, that a public officer has been appointed to take it over, or that it ceases or refuses to make payments in the ordinary course of business.

(b) Other definitions applying to this article and the sections in which they appear are:

"Agreement for electronic presentment". Section 490:4-110.

"Bank". Section 490:4-105.

"Collecting bank". Section 490:4-105.

"Depositary bank". Section 490:4-105.

"Intermediary bank". Section 490:4-105.

"Payor bank". Section 490:4-105.

"Presenting bank". Section 490:4-105.

"Presentment notice". Section 490:4-110.

(c) The following definitions in other articles apply to this article:

"Acceptance". Section 490:3-409.

"Alteration". Section 490:3-407.

"Cashier's check". Section 490:3-104.

"Certificate of deposit". Section 490:3-104.

"Certified check". Section 490:3-409.

"Check". Section 490:3-104.

"Control". Section 490:7-106.

"Good faith". Section 490:3-103.

"Holder in due course". Section 490:3-302.

"Instrument". Section 490:3-104.

"Notice of dishonor". Section 490:3-503.

"Order". Section 490:3-103.

"Ordinary care". Section 490:3-103.

"Person entitled to enforce". Section 490:3-301.

"Presentment". Section 490:3-501.

"Promise". Section 490:3-103.

"Prove". Section 490:3-103.

"Teller's check". Section 490:3-104.

"Unauthorized signature". Section 490:3-403.

(d) In addition, article 1 contains general definitions and principles of construction and interpretation applicable throughout this article. [L 1965, c 208, §4-104; [HRS §490:4-104](/title-27/chapter-490/section-490-4-104/); am L 1991, c 118, pt of §4; am L 1997, c 33, §6; am L 2004, c 163, §18]