---
hrs_structure:
  division: '1'
  volume: '5'
  title: '18'
  chapter: 302A
  section: 302A-1151.5
type: hrs_section
tags:
  - Government
menu:
  hrs:
    identifier: HRS_0302A-1151_0005
    parent: HRS0302A
    name: 302A-1151.5 Use of vacant public school facilities
weight: 65095
title: Use of vacant public school facilities
full_title: 302A-1151.5 Use of vacant public school facilities
---
**§302A-1151.5 Use of vacant public school facilities.** (a) When the department considers whether to close any particular public school, it shall simultaneously give reasonable consideration to making all or portions of the facilities of the public school available to charter schools and pre-plus programs; provided that the facilities may be used for any other purpose the board deems appropriate.

(b) The department shall identify unused public school facilities that may be appropriate for:

(1) Charter schools;

(2) Early learning programs, such as the pre-plus program; and

(3) Any other purpose the board deems appropriate.

Suitable empty classrooms, as determined by the department, shall be inventoried for potential use by charter schools, early learning programs, such as the pre-plus program, or for any other purpose the board deems appropriate. Priority shall be given to facilities on sites with sufficient space for three or more classrooms.

(c) The department shall adopt rules necessary to carry out the purposes of this section.

(d) For purposes of this section, "public school" means any school that falls within the definition of public schools in section 302A-101, except for charter schools.

[(e)] Upon receipt of a notice pursuant to subsection (b), the executive office on early learning shall solicit applications from pre-plus programs interested in using and occupying all or portions of the facilities of the public school and submit a prioritized list of pre-plus programs to the department for final determination of which pre-plus program, if any, shall be authorized to use and occupy the public school facilities. [L 2010, c 144, §2; am L 2012, c 130, §10 as superseded by c 133, §22 and c 178, §4]

Note

In subsection (e), the reference to subsection (b) is to former subsection (b) that was deleted by L 2012, c 133, §22.