---
hrs_structure:
  division: '5'
  volume: '14'
  title: '37'
  chapter: '710'
  section: 710-1017.5
type: hrs_section
tags:
  - Crime
  - Criminal Proceeding
menu:
  hrs:
    identifier: HRS_0710-1017_0005
    parent: HRS0710
    name: 710-1017.5 Sale or manufacture of deceptive identification
weight: 25100
title: Sale or manufacture of deceptive identification
full_title: 710-1017.5 Sale or manufacture of deceptive identification
---
**[ยง710-1017.5] Sale or manufacture of deceptive identification document; penalties.** (1) A person commits the offense of sale or manufacture of deceptive identification document if the person intentionally or knowingly manufactures, sells, offers for sale, furnishes, offers to be furnished, transports, offers to be transported, or imports or offers to be imported into this State a deceptive identification document.

(2) As used in this section, "deceptive identification document" means any identification document not issued by a governmental agency that purports to be, or that might deceive a reasonable person into believing that it is, an identification document issued by a governmental agency, including a driver's license, identification card, birth certificate, passport, or social security card.

(3) The sale or manufacture of a deceptive identification document is a class C felony.

(4) Any property used or intended for use in the commission of, attempt to commit, or conspiracy to commit an offense under this section, or that facilitated or assisted such activity, shall be subject to forfeiture under chapter 712A. [L 2001, c 230, ยง1]

Cross References

Protection of personal information, civil remedies, see chapters 487J, 487N, and 487R.

COMMENTARY ON ยง710-1017.5

Act 230, Session Laws 2001, created the criminal offense of the sale or manufacture of deceptive identification documents. Testimony regarding the measure indicated that identification documents, such as driver licenses, identification cards, and birth certificates, have become prey to unscrupulous commercial enterprises that have created a market for selling falsified official identification documents. False identification documents could be used in place of authentic documents for everyday purposes, such as proof of identification, age, or citizenship. Senate Standing Committee Report No. 1131.