---
hrs_structure:
  division: '5'
  volume: '14'
  title: '37'
  chapter: '708'
  section: 708-871.5
type: hrs_section
tags:
  - Crime
  - Criminal Proceeding
menu:
  hrs:
    identifier: HRS_0708-0871_0005
    parent: HRS0708
    name: 708-871.5 False labeling of Hawaii-grown coffee
weight: 22360
title: False labeling of Hawaii-grown coffee
full_title: 708-871.5 False labeling of Hawaii-grown coffee
---
**[****ยง708-871.5] False labeling of Hawaii-grown coffee.** (1) A person commits the offense of false labeling of Hawaii-grown coffee if the person knowingly transports, distributes, advertises, sells, or possesses with the intent to sell Hawaii-grown green coffee, cherry coffee, or parchment coffee that is falsely labeled with regard to the geographic origin of the Hawaii-grown coffee.

(2) For purposes of this section:

"Cherry coffee" means the unprocessed fruit of the coffee plant.

"Geographic origin" means the geographic areas designated as follows:

(a) Hamakua is the Hamakua district on the island of Hawaii, as designated by the State of Hawaii tax map;

(b) Hawaii is the State of Hawaii;

(c) Kau is the Kau district on the island of Hawaii, as designated by the State of Hawaii tax map;

(d) Kauai is the island of Kauai;

(e) Kona is the north Kona and south Kona districts on the island of Hawaii, as designated by the State of Hawaii tax map;

(f) Maui is the island of Maui;

(g) Molokai is the island of Molokai; and

(h) Oahu is the island of Oahu.

"Green coffee" means the agricultural commodity comprised of green coffee beans.

"Parchment coffee" means the dried product that remains when coffee cherries are processed by removing the coffee seeds from the pulp.

(3) False labeling of Hawaii-grown coffee is a class C felony. [L 2012, c 328, ยง1]

COMMENTARY ON ยง708-871.5

Act 328, Session Laws 2012, added this section, making the offense of false labeling of Hawaii-grown coffee with regard to the geographic origin of the coffee a class C felony. Act 328 provided stronger criminal penalties to help deter the distribution of Hawaii-grown coffee that was falsely labeled as to geographic origin. Senate Standing Committee Report No. 3239, Conference Committee Report No. 114-12.