---
hrs_structure:
  division: '1'
  volume: '6'
  title: '19'
  chapter: 342H
  section: 342H-51
type: hrs_section
tags:
  - Government
menu:
  hrs:
    identifier: HRS_0342H-0051
    parent: HRS0342H
    name: 342H-51 Definitions
weight: 80190
title: Definitions
full_title: 342H-51 Definitions
---
**[PART IV.] MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE LANDFILL CRITERIA**

**[§342H-51] Definitions.** Unless otherwise explicitly stated, the definitions provided in section 342H-1 shall control the meaning of the terms used in this part. As used in this part, unless the context otherwise requires:

"Commercial solid waste" means all types of solid waste generated by stores, offices, restaurants, warehouses, and other nonmanufacturing activities, excluding residential and industrial wastes.

"Existing municipal solid waste landfill unit" means any municipal solid waste landfill unit that is receiving solid waste on October 9, 1993.

"Facility" means all contiguous land and structures, other appurtenances, and improvements on the land used for the disposal of solid waste.

"Household waste" means any solid waste (including garbage, trash, and sanitary waste in septic tanks) derived from households (including single and multiple residences, hotels and motels, bunkhouses, ranger stations, crew quarters, campgrounds, picnic grounds, and day-use recreation areas).

"Industrial solid waste" means solid waste generated by manufacturing or industrial processes that is not a hazardous waste regulated under Subtitle C of RCRA. Such waste may include, but is not limited to, waste resulting from electric power generation, water treatment, and the manufacture of the following products: fertilizers and agricultural chemicals; food and related products and byproducts; inorganic chemicals; iron and steel; leather and leather products; nonferrous metals; organic chemicals; plastics and resins; pulp and paper products; rubber and miscellaneous plastic products; stone, glass, clay and concrete products; textiles; and transportation equipment. This term does not include mining waste or oil and gas waste.

"Lateral expansion" means a horizontal expansion of the waste boundaries of an existing municipal solid waste landfill unit.

"Municipal solid waste landfill unit" means a discrete area of land or an excavation that receives household waste and is not a land application unit, surface impoundment, injection well, or waste pile. A municipal solid waste landfill unit also may receive other types of waste regulated under Subtitle D of RCRA, such as commercial solid waste, nonhazardous sludge, small quantity generator waste and industrial solid waste. Such a landfill may be publicly or privately owned. A municipal solid waste landfill unit may be a new municipal solid waste landfill unit, an existing municipal solid waste landfill unit, or a lateral expansion.

"New municipal solid waste landfill unit" means any municipal solid waste landfill unit that has not received waste prior to October 9, 1993.

"Operator" means the person responsible for the overall operation of a facility or part of a facility.

"Owner" means the person who owns a facility or part of a facility.

"RCRA" means the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended, 42 United States Code, §§6901 to 6991i. [L 1992, c 245, pt of §1]