---
hrs_structure:
  division: '2'
  volume: '9'
  title: '24'
  chapter: '432'
  section: '432:1-604.5'
type: hrs_section
tags:
  - Business
menu:
  hrs:
    identifier: HRS_0432-0001-0604_0005
    parent: HRS0432
    name: '432:1-604.5 Contraceptive services'
weight: 24225
title: Contraceptive services
full_title: '432:1-604.5 Contraceptive services'
---
**§432:1-604.5 Contraceptive services.** (a) Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, each employer group health policy, contract, plan, or agreement issued or renewed in this State on or after January 1, 2000, shall cease to exclude contraceptive services or supplies, and contraceptive prescription drug coverage for the subscriber or any dependent of the subscriber who is covered by the policy, subject to the exclusion under section 431:10A-116.7.

(b) Except as provided in subsection (c), all policies, contracts, plans, or agreements under subsection (a), that provide contraceptive services or supplies, or prescription drug coverage, shall not exclude any prescription contraceptive supplies or impose any unusual copayment, charge, or waiting requirement for such drug or device.

(c) Coverage for contraceptives shall include at least one brand from the monophasic, multiphasic, and the progestin-only categories. A member shall receive coverage for any other oral contraceptive only if:

(1) Use of brands covered has resulted in an adverse drug reaction; or

(2) The member has not used the brands covered and, based on the member's past medical history, the prescribing health care provider believes that use of the brands covered would result in an adverse reaction.

(d) Coverage required by this section shall include reimbursement to a prescribing health care provider or dispensing entity for prescription contraceptive supplies intended to last for up to a twelve-month period for a member.

(e) For purposes of this section:

"Contraceptive services" means physician-delivered, physician-supervised, physician assistant-delivered, advanced practice registered nurse-delivered, nurse-delivered, or pharmacist-delivered medical services intended to promote the effective use of contraceptive supplies or devices to prevent unwanted pregnancy.

"Contraceptive supplies" means all Food and Drug Administration-approved contraceptive drugs or devices used to prevent unwanted pregnancy.

(f) Nothing in this section shall be construed to extend the practice or privileges of any health care provider beyond that provided in the laws governing the provider's practice and privileges. [L 1993, c 365, §2; am L 1999, c 267, §3; am L 2016, c 141, §18 and c 205, §3]

Note

Applicability of L 2016, c 205 amendment. L 2016, c 205, §§4, 5, and 7.