---
hrs_structure:
  division: '2'
  volume: '9'
  title: '24'
  chapter: '431'
  section: '431:2-301.7'
type: hrs_section
tags:
  - Business
menu:
  hrs:
    identifier: HRS_0431-0002-0301_0007
    parent: HRS0431
    name: '431:2-301.7 Conduct of examinations'
weight: 10295
title: Conduct of examinations
full_title: '431:2-301.7 Conduct of examinations'
---
**[ยง431:2-301.7]** **Conduct of examinations.** (a) Upon determining that an examination should be conducted, the commissioner or the commissioner's designee shall issue an examination warrant appointing one or more examiners to perform the examination and instructing them as to the scope of the examination. In conducting the examination, the examiners shall observe those guidelines and procedures set forth in the examiners' handbook adopted by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. The commissioner may also employ such other guidelines or procedures as the commissioner may deem appropriate.

(b) Every company or person from whom information is sought, including its officers, directors, and agents, shall provide to the examiners appointed under subsection (a) timely, convenient, and free access at all reasonable hours at its offices to all books, records, accounts, papers, documents, and any or all computer or other recordings relating to the property, assets, business, and affairs of the company being examined. The officers, directors, employees, and agents of the company or person shall facilitate the examination and aid in the examination insofar as it is in their power to do so. The refusal of any company, by its officers, directors, employees, or agents, to submit to examination or to comply with any reasonable written request of the examiners shall be grounds for suspension or refusal of, or nonrenewal of, any license or authority held by the company to engage in an insurance or other business subject to the commissioner's jurisdiction. Any such proceedings for suspension, revocation, or refusal of any license or authority shall be conducted pursuant to section 431:3-217.

(c) The commissioner or any authorized examiner shall have the power to issue subpoenas, administer oaths, and examine under oath any person as to any matter pertinent to the examination. Upon the failure or refusal of any person to obey a subpoena, the subpoena may be enforced pursuant to section 431:2-207.

(d) When conducting an examination, the commissioner may retain attorneys, appraisers, independent actuaries, independent certified public accountants, or other professionals and specialists as examiners, the cost of which shall be borne by the company that is the subject of the examination.

(e) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to limit the commissioner's authority to terminate or suspend any examination in order to pursue other legal or regulatory action pursuant to the insurance laws of this State. Findings of fact and conclusions made pursuant to any examination shall be prima facie evidence in any legal or regulatory action.

(f) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to limit the commissioner's authority to use and, if appropriate, to make public any final or preliminary examination report, any examiner or company workpapers, or other documents, or any other information discovered or developed during the course of any examination in the furtherance of any legal or regulatory action that the commissioner may, in the commissioner's sole discretion, deem appropriate. [L 1993, c 321, pt of ยง2]