---
hrs_structure:
  division: '2'
  volume: '9'
  title: '24'
  chapter: '431'
  section: '431:10-115'
type: hrs_section
tags:
  - Business
menu:
  hrs:
    identifier: HRS_0431-0010H-0115
    parent: HRS0431
    name: Chapter 431 Insurance Code
weight: 14600
title: Insurance Code
full_title: Chapter 431 Insurance Code
---
**ยง431:10H-115 Incontestability period--group and individual policies.** (a) For a policy or certificate that has been in force for less than six months an insurer may rescind a long-term care insurance policy or certificate or deny an otherwise valid long-term care insurance claim upon a showing of misrepresentation that is material to the acceptance of coverage.

(b) For a policy or certificate that has been in force at least six months but less than two years, an insurer may rescind a long-term care insurance policy or certificate or deny an otherwise valid long-term care insurance claim upon a showing of misrepresentation that is both material to the acceptance of coverage and which pertains to the condition for which benefits are sought.

(c) After a policy or certificate has been in force for two years it is not contestable solely upon the grounds of misrepresentation alone. The policy or certificate may be contested only upon a showing that the insured knowingly and intentionally misrepresented relevant facts relating to the insured's health.

(d) No long-term care insurance policy or certificate may be field issued based on medical or health status. For purposes of this subsection, "field issued" means a policy or certificate issued by a producer or a third-party administrator pursuant to the underwriting authority granted to the producer or third party administrator by an insurer.

(e) If an insurer has paid benefits under the long-term care insurance policy or certificate, the benefit payments may not be recovered by the insurer if the policy or certificate is rescinded.

(f) In the event of the death of the insured, this section shall not apply to the remaining death benefit of a life insurance policy that accelerates benefits for long-term care. In this situation, the remaining death benefits under these policies shall be governed by article 10D of this chapter. In all other situations, this section shall apply to life insurance policies that accelerate benefits for long-term care. [L 1999, c 93, pt of ยง2; am L 2003, c 212, ยง94]