---
hrs_structure:
  division: '2'
  volume: '9'
  title: '24'
  chapter: '431'
  section: '431:10-201'
type: hrs_section
tags:
  - Business
menu:
  hrs:
    identifier: HRS_0431-0010H-0201
    parent: HRS0431
    name: '431:10-201 Scope'
weight: 14625
title: Scope
full_title: '431:10-201 Scope'
---
**PART II. LONG-TERM CARE INSURANCE MODEL REGULATION**

**§431:10H-201 Policy definitions.** (a) No long-term care insurance policy delivered or issued for delivery in this State shall use the terms set forth in this section, unless the terms are defined in the policy and the definitions satisfy the following requirements:

"Activities of daily living" means at least bathing, continence, dressing, eating, toileting, and transferring.

"Acute condition" means that the individual is medically unstable. This individual requires frequent monitoring by medical professionals such as physicians and registered nurses, in order to maintain the individual's health status.

"Adult day care" means a program for six or more individuals, of social and health-related services provided during the day in a community group setting for the purpose of supporting frail, impaired elderly or other disabled adults who can benefit from care in a group setting outside the home.

"Bathing" means washing oneself by sponge bath, or in either a tub or shower, including the task of getting into or out of the tub or shower.

"Cognitive impairment" means a deficiency in a person's short- or long-term memory, orientation as to person, place, and time, deductive or abstract reasoning, or judgment as it relates to safety awareness.

"Continence" means the ability to maintain control of bowel and bladder function, or when unable to maintain control of bowel or bladder function, the ability to perform associated personal hygiene (including caring for catheter or colostomy bag).

"Dressing" means putting on and taking off all items of clothing and any necessary braces, fasteners, or artificial limbs.

"Eating" means feeding oneself by getting food into the body from a receptacle (such as a plate, cup, or table) or by a feeding tube or intravenously.

"Hands-on assistance" means physical assistance (minimal, moderate, or maximal) without which the individual would not be able to perform the activity of daily living.

"Home health care services" means medical and nonmedical services, provided to ill, disabled, or infirm persons in their residences. These services may include homemaker services, assistance with activities of daily living, and respite care services.

"Medicare" shall be defined as "The Health Insurance for the Aged Act, Title XVIII of the Social Security Amendments of 1965 as Then Constituted or Later Amended", or title I, part I of Public Law 89-97, as Enacted by the Eighty-Ninth Congress of the United States of America and popularly known as the Health Insurance for the Aged Act, as then constituted and any later amendments or substitutes thereof, or words of similar import.

"Mental or nervous disorder" means neurosis, psychoneurosis, psychopathy, psychosis, or mental or emotional disease or disorder, and shall not be defined beyond these terms.

"Personal care" means the provision of hands-on services to assist an individual with activities of daily living.

"Skilled nursing care", "personal care", "home care", "specialized care", "assisted living care", and other services shall be defined in relation to the level of skill required, the nature of the care, and the setting in which care must be delivered.

"Toileting" means getting to and from the toilet, getting on and off the toilet, and performing associated personal hygiene.

"Transferring" means moving into or out of a bed, chair, or wheelchair.

(b) All providers of services, including but not limited to a "skilled nursing facility", "extended care facility", "convalescent nursing home", "personal care facility", "assisted living facility", "home care agency", and "specialized care providers" shall be defined in relation to the services and facilities required to be available and the licensure, certification, registration, or degree status of those providing or supervising the services. The definition may require that the provider be appropriately licensed, certified, or registered; provided that when the definition so requires, it shall also state what requirements a provider shall meet in lieu of licensure, certification, or registration when the state in which the service is to be furnished does not require a provider of these services to be licensed, certified, or registered, or when the state licenses, certifies, or registers the provider of services under another name. [L 1999, c 93, pt of §2; am L 2007, c 233, §10]