---
hrs_structure:
  division: '2'
  volume: '9'
  title: '24'
  chapter: '431'
  section: '431:16-110'
type: hrs_section
tags:
  - Business
menu:
  hrs:
    identifier: HRS_0431-0016-0110
    parent: HRS0431
    name: '431:16-110 Duties and powers of the commissioner'
weight: 15840
title: Duties and powers of the commissioner
full_title: '431:16-110 Duties and powers of the commissioner'
---
**ยง431:16-110 Duties and powers of the commissioner.** (a) The commissioner shall:

(1) Notify the association of the existence of an insolvent insurer not later than three days after the commissioner receives notice of the determination of the insolvency. The association shall be entitled to a copy of a complaint seeking an order of liquidation with a finding of insolvency against a member company at the same time that the complaint is filed with a court of competent jurisdiction.

(2) Upon request of the board of directors, provide the association with a statement of the net direct written premiums of each member insurer.

(b) The commissioner may:

(1) Require that the association notify the insureds of the insolvent insurer and any other interested parties of the determination of insolvency and of their rights under this part. The notification shall be by mail at their last known address, where available, but if sufficient information for notification by mail is not available, notice by publication in a newspaper of general circulation shall be sufficient.

(2) Suspend or revoke, after notice and hearing, the certificate of authority to transact insurance in this State of any member insurer which fails to pay an assessment when due or fails to comply with the plan of operation. As an alternative, the commissioner may levy a fine on any member insurer which fails to pay an assessment when due. The fine shall not exceed five per cent of the unpaid assessment per month, except that no fine shall be less than $100 per month.

(3) Revoke the designation of any servicing facility if the commissioner finds claims are being handled unsatisfactorily.

(c) Any final action or order of the commissioner under this part shall be subject to judicial review by the circuit court of the first judicial circuit. [L 1987, c 347, pt of ยง2; am L 2000, c 93, ยง9]