---
hrs_structure:
  division: '2'
  volume: '9'
  title: '24'
  chapter: '431'
  section: '431:10-307'
type: hrs_section
tags:
  - Business
menu:
  hrs:
    identifier: HRS_0431-0010D-0307
    parent: HRS0431
    name: Chapter 431 Insurance Code
weight: 14160
title: Insurance Code
full_title: Chapter 431 Insurance Code
---
**§431:10D-307 Beneficiary.** (a) Each policy shall have a space on the front or back page of the policy for the name of the beneficiary designated with a reservation of the right to designate or change the beneficiary after the issuance of the policy.

(b) The policy may also provide that no designation or change of beneficiary shall be binding on the insurer until endorsed on the policy by the insurer, and that the insurer may refuse to endorse the name of any proposed beneficiary who does not appear to the insurer to have an insurable interest in the life of the insured. [L 1987, c 347, pt of §2]cussed: 76 H. 304, 875 P.2d 921.nd captions. The outline of coverage shall include:

(1) A description of the principal benefits and coverage provided in the policy;

(2) A statement of the renewal provisions including any reservation by the issuer of a right to change premiums; and disclosure of the existence of any automatic renewal premium increases based on the policyholder's age; and

(3) A statement that the outline of coverage is a summary of the policy issued or applied for and that the policy should be consulted to determine governing contractual provisions.

(c) The commissioner may prescribe by rule a standard form and contents of an informational brochure for persons eligible for medicare which is intended to improve the buyer's ability to select the most appropriate coverage and improve the buyer's understanding of medicare. Except in the case of direct response insurance policies, the commissioner may require by rule that the informational brochure be provided to any prospective insureds eligible for medicare concurrently with delivery of the outline of coverage. With respect to direct response insurance policies, the commissioner may require by rule that the prescribed brochure be provided upon request to any prospective insureds eligible for medicare, but in no event later than the time of policy delivery.

(d) The commissioner may adopt reasonable rules for captions or notice requirements, determined to be in the public interest and designed to inform prospective insureds that particular insurance coverages are not medicare supplement coverages, for all accident and health or sickness insurance policies sold to persons eligible for medicare, other than:

(1) Medicare supplement policies; or

(2) Disability income policies.

(e) The commissioner may adopt reasonable rules to govern the full and fair disclosure of information in connection with the replacement of accident and health or sickness insurance policies, subscriber contracts, or certificates by persons eligible for medicare. [L 1987, c 347, pt of §2; am L 1990, c 84, §6; am L 1992, c 195, §6; am L 1996, c 28, §5; am L 2002, c 155, §64]