---
hrs_structure:
  division: '2'
  volume: '9'
  title: '24'
  chapter: '431'
  section: '431:2-111'
type: hrs_section
tags:
  - Business
menu:
  hrs:
    identifier: HRS_0431-0002D-0111
    parent: HRS0431
    name: Chapter 431 Insurance Code
weight: 10445
title: Insurance Code
full_title: Chapter 431 Insurance Code
---
**[ยง431:2D-111] Data collection and participation in national market conduct databases.** (a) The commissioner shall collect and report market data to the market information systems of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, including the complaint database system, the examination tracking system, and the regulatory information retrieval system, or other comparable successor products as determined by the commissioner. In addition to complaint data, the accuracy of insurer-specific information reported to the National Association of Insurance Commissioners to be used for market analysis purposes or as the basis for market conduct actions shall be reviewed by appropriate personnel in the insurance division and by the insurer.

(b) Information collected and maintained by the insurance division shall be compiled in a manner that meets the requirements of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners.

(c) After completion of any level of market analysis, prior to further market conduct action, the commissioner shall contact the insurer to review the analysis.

(d) An insurer responding to a commissioner's request to produce information shall produce it as it is kept in the usual course of business or shall organize and label it to correspond with the categories in the demand.

If a commissioner's request does not specify the form or forms for producing electronically stored information, an insurer responding to the request shall produce the information in a form or forms in which the insurer ordinarily maintains it or in a form or forms that are reasonably usable.

An insurer responding to an information request need not produce the same electronically stored information in more than one form.

An insurer responding to an information request need not provide the electronically stored information from sources that the insurer identifies as not reasonably accessible because of undue burden or cost. [L 2007, c 227, pt of ยง1]