---
hrs_structure:
  division: '2'
  volume: '9'
  title: '24'
  chapter: '431'
  section: '431:16-112'
type: hrs_section
tags:
  - Business
menu:
  hrs:
    identifier: HRS_0431-0016-0112
    parent: HRS0431
    name: '431:16-112 Exhaustion of other coverage'
weight: 15850
title: Exhaustion of other coverage
full_title: '431:16-112 Exhaustion of other coverage'
---
**ยง431:16-112 Exhaustion of other coverage.** (a) Any person having a claim against an insurer whether or not the insurer is a member insurer under any provision in an insurance policy other than a policy of an insolvent insurer that is also a covered claim, shall be required to exhaust first the person's rights under the policy. Any amount payable on a covered claim under this part shall be reduced by the amount of any recovery under the insurance policy. If there are any other policies issued by an insolvent insurer applicable to the covered claim, then all such policies shall be exhausted before any claim can be deemed a covered claim subject to being covered by the association.

(1) A claim under a policy providing liability coverage to a person who may be jointly and severally liable as a joint tortfeasor with a person covered under the policy of the insolvent insurer that gives rise to the covered claim shall be considered to be a claim arising from the same facts, injury, or loss that gave rise to the covered claim against the association.

(2) A claim under an insurance policy other than a life insurance policy shall include, but is not limited to:

(A) A claim against a health maintenance organization, a hospital plan corporation, a professional health service corporation, or disability insurance policy; and

(B) Any amount payable by or on behalf of a self-insurer.

(3) The person insured by the insolvent insurer's policy may not be pursued by a third-party claimant for any amount paid to the third party by which the association's obligation is reduced by the application of this section.

(b) Any person having a claim that may be recovered under more than one insurance guaranty association or its equivalent shall seek recovery first from the association of the place of residence of the insured, except that if the claim is a first-party claim for damage to property with a permanent location, the person shall seek recovery first from the association of the location of the property. For a workers' compensation claim, the person shall seek recovery first from the association of the residence of the claimant. Any recovery under this part shall be reduced by the amount of recovery from any other insurance guaranty association or its equivalent. [L 1987, c 347, pt of ยง2; am L 2000, c 93, ยง11; am L 2012, c 250, ยง3]