---
hrs_structure:
  division: '2'
  volume: '9'
  title: '24'
  chapter: '431'
  section: '431:10-202.5'
type: hrs_section
tags:
  - Business
menu:
  hrs:
    identifier: HRS_0431-0010H-0202_0005
    parent: HRS0431
    name: Chapter 431 Insurance Code
weight: 14635
title: Insurance Code
full_title: Chapter 431 Insurance Code
---
**[§431:10H-202.5] Licensing.** A producer is not authorized to sell, solicit, or negotiate with respect to long-term care insurance except as authorized by article 9A. [L 2007, c 233, pt of §4]ry 1, 1993, all authorized insurers transacting motor vehicle insurance in this State shall implement a fifteen per cent rate reduction from the rates on file with the commissioner for all motor vehicle insurance policies in effect on March 1, 1992, and for each new and renewal policy issued thereafter. The reduced rate shall continue to apply to each new and renewal policy for a period of one year.

(c) There shall be no exception to the requirements of this section unless the commissioner, pursuant to an insurer's petition, finds that those requirements will result in imminent danger of insolvency of the insurer. An insurer who contends that a rate required by this section will result in imminent danger of insolvency of the insurer shall designate in its petition the rate it contends is appropriate and shall state with specificity the factors and data upon which it relies. The insurer shall be permitted to use all generally accepted actuarial techniques in filing any petition pursuant to this subsection. The insurer shall have the burden of proof to actuarially justify any rate increase from those provided for in subsections (a) and (b) and shall furnish all information, facts, and data requested by the commissioner reviewing any rate request.

(d) Effective January 1, 1994, all insurers shall include data on the impact of the provisions of Acts 123 and 124, Session Laws of Hawaii 1992, on all requested rate adjustments. The commissioner shall not approve any rate adjustments that do not contain a statement of the impact of the provisions of Acts 123 and 124, Session Laws of Hawaii 1992, the method used in calculating such impact, and the data used to determine such impact. [L 1992, c 123, pt of §1, §9 and c 124, pt of §1]

Revision Note

In subsection (a), "June 3, 1992," substituted for "the effective date of this Act".

In subsection (d), reference to Act 124 added.