---
hrs_structure:
  division: '2'
  volume: '9'
  title: '24'
  chapter: '431'
  section: '431:10-116.6'
type: hrs_section
tags:
  - Business
menu:
  hrs:
    identifier: HRS_0431-0010H-0116_0006
    parent: HRS0431
    name: Chapter 431 Insurance Code
weight: 14615
title: Insurance Code
full_title: Chapter 431 Insurance Code
---
**[****§431:10H-116.6] Denial of claims; compliance requirements.** (a) If a claim under a long-term care insurance contract is denied, the issuer, within sixty days of the date of a written request by the policyholder or certificate holder, or a representative thereof shall:

(1) Provide a written explanation of the reasons for the denial; and

(2) Make available all information directly related to the denial.

(b) Any policy or rider advertised, marketed, or offered as long-term care or nursing home insurance shall comply with this article. [L 2007, c 233, pt of §3]ements under subsection (a), that provide contraceptive services or supplies, or prescription drug coverage, shall not exclude any prescription contraceptive supplies or impose any unusual copayment, charge, or waiting requirement for such supplies.

(c) Coverage for oral contraceptives shall include at least one brand from the monophasic, multiphasic, and the progestin-only categories. A member shall receive coverage for any other oral contraceptive only if:

(1) Use of brands covered has resulted in an adverse drug reaction; or

(2) The member has not used the brands covered and, based on the member's past medical history, the prescribing health care provider believes that use of the brands covered would result in an adverse reaction.

(d) Coverage required by this section shall include reimbursement to a prescribing health care provider or dispensing entity for prescription contraceptive supplies intended to last for up to a twelve-month period for an insured.

(e) For purposes of this section:

"Contraceptive services" means physician-delivered, physician-supervised, physician assistant-delivered, advanced practice registered nurse-delivered, nurse-delivered, or pharmacist-delivered medical services intended to promote the effective use of contraceptive supplies or devices to prevent unwanted pregnancy.

"Contraceptive supplies" means all United States Food and Drug Administration-approved contraceptive drugs or devices used to prevent unwanted pregnancy.

(f) Nothing in this section shall be construed to extend the practice or privileges of any health care provider beyond that provided in the laws governing the provider's practice and privileges. [L 1993, c 365, §1; am L 1999, c 267, §2; am L 2003, c 201, §3 and c 212, §73; am L 2016, c 141, §6 and c 205, §2]

Note

Applicability of L 2016, c 205 amendment. L 2016, c 205, §§4, 5, and 7.