---
hrs_structure:
  division: '2'
  volume: '9'
  title: '24'
  chapter: '431'
  section: '431:2-402'
type: hrs_section
tags:
  - Business
menu:
  hrs:
    identifier: HRS_0431-0002-0402
    parent: HRS0431
    name: '431:2-402 Insurance fraud investigations branch'
weight: 10350
title: Insurance fraud investigations branch
full_title: '431:2-402 Insurance fraud investigations branch'
---
**ยง431:2-402 Insurance fraud investigations branch.** (a) There is established in the insurance division the insurance fraud investigations branch for the purposes set forth in this part.

(b) The branch shall:

(1) Conduct a statewide program for the prevention of insurance fraud under title 24, including chapters 431, 432, and 432D; provided that the branch shall not have jurisdiction over workers' compensation under chapter 386;

(2) Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, investigate and prosecute in administrative hearings and courts of competent jurisdiction all persons involved in insurance fraud violations; and

(3) Promote public and industry-wide education about insurance fraud.

(c) The branch may review and take appropriate action on complaints of fraud relating to insurance under title 24, including chapters 431, 432, and 432D, but excluding workers' compensation insurance under chapter 386.

(d) The commissioner shall employ or retain, by contract or otherwise, attorneys, investigators, investigator assistants, auditors, accountants, physicians, health care professionals, paralegals, consultants, experts, and other professional, technical, and support staff as necessary to promote the effective and efficient conduct of the branch's activities. The commissioner may hire these employees without regard to chapters 76 or 89.

(e) Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, an attorney employed or retained by the branch may represent the State in any criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding to enforce all applicable state laws relating to insurance fraud, including criminal prosecutions, disciplinary actions, and actions for declaratory and injunctive relief. The attorney general may designate an attorney as a special deputy attorney general for purposes of this subsection.

(f) Investigators appointed and commissioned under this part shall have and may exercise all of the powers and authority of a police officer or of a deputy sheriff.

(g) Funding for the branch shall come from the compliance resolution fund established by section 26-9(o). [L 2009, c 149, pt of ยง2; am L 2014, c 186, ยง6]