---
hrs_structure:
  division: '1'
  volume: '5'
  title: '15'
  chapter: '269'
  section: 269-131
type: hrs_section
tags:
  - Government
menu:
  hrs:
    identifier: HRS_0269-0131
    parent: HRS0269
    name: 269-131 Definitions
weight: 22540
title: Definitions
full_title: 269-131 Definitions
---
**[PART VIII.] INTERISLAND TRANSMISSION SYSTEM**

**[ยง269-131] Definitions.** As used in this part:

"Cable acquisition cost" means the electric utility company's costs, including reasonable transaction costs, to acquire a high-voltage electric transmission cable system pursuant to a turnkey cable contract or a cable purchase contract.

"Cable company" means any person or persons, company, corporation, or entity that is selected through a request for proposals, or other process approved by the commission, to be a certified cable company applicant.

"Certified cable company" means any person or persons, company, corporation, or entity who owns or controls a high-voltage electric transmission cable system and who receives a certificate of public convenience and necessity from the commission pursuant to section 269-132.

"Commercial operations" means the period after the high-voltage electric transmission cable system:

(1) Passes acceptance tests approved by the commission, as determined by a qualified independent engineer approved by the commission; and

(2) Meets other criteria the commission determines to be reasonable.

"Commercial operations date" means the date upon which the high-voltage electric transmission cable system begins commercial operations, as determined by the commission.

"Commission" means the public utilities commission.

"Cost-effective" has the same meaning as in section 269-91.

"Electric utility company" means a public utility as defined in section 269-1, for the production, conveyance, transmission, delivery, or furnishing of electric power.

"Electric utility system" means the electric system owned and operated by an electric utility company, including any non-utility owned facilities that are interconnected to the system, consisting of power plants, transmission and distribution lines, and related equipment for the production and delivery of electric power to the public.

"Energy resources coordinator" or "coordinator" means the director of business, economic development, and tourism.

"High-voltage electric transmission cable system" means one hundred twenty kilovolts or greater of alternating current or direct current transmission cables constructed undersea, including connected transmission cables or lines installed on land that connect the electric utility systems on two or more islands or allow for the transmission of power from one or more energy generation facilities to the electric utility system located on another island of the State; alternating current substation or alternating current-direct current converter station; on-island transmission infrastructure if required; fiber optic communication cables; and other appurtenant facilities.

"On-island transmission infrastructure" means the modifications and additions to the existing alternating current transmission grid on an island and other electric utility system modifications needed to reliably connect a high-voltage electric transmission cable system to an electric utility system, and to reliably accept power transmitted via the high-voltage electric transmission cable system connecting two or more islands of the State's electric utility systems.

"Power purchase agreement" means an agreement between an electric utility company and the developer of an energy generation facility to sell the power generated by the facility to the electric utility company.

"Project-on-project financing risk" means the risk involved when mutually dependent projects, whose risk of completion, and therefore, financing, are dependent on each other.

"Renewable electricity" means electrical energy generated using renewable energy as the source.

"Renewable energy" has the same meaning as in section 269-91.

"Renewable energy generation facility" means a facility generating electrical energy using renewable energy as the primary source.

"Renewable portfolio standard" has the same meaning as in section 269-91.

"Request for proposals" means a request for proposals issued pursuant to a competitive process authorized, reviewed, and approved by the commission, and developed and conducted by the electric utility company or companies to which the capacity of a high-voltage electric transmission cable system will be made available, with input and assistance from the state energy resources coordinator, to select a cable company. [L 2012, c 165, pt of ยง2]