---
hrs_structure:
  division: '2'
  volume: '8'
  title: 23a
  chapter: '428'
  section: 428-1302
type: hrs_section
tags:
  - Business
menu:
  hrs:
    identifier: HRS_0428-1302
    parent: HRS0428
    name: 428-1302 Penalties
weight: 50465
title: Penalties
full_title: 428-1302 Penalties
---
**[ยง428-1302] Penalties.** (a) Each limited liability company and foreign limited liability company that fails or refuses to file its annual report for any year within the time prescribed by this chapter shall be subject to a forfeiture of an amount to be determined by the director not exceeding $100 for every such offense, violation, neglect, or failure, to be recovered by action brought in the name of the State by the director. A continuance of a failure to file the required statement shall be a separate offense for each thirty days of the continuance. The director, for good cause shown, may reduce or waive the penalty imposed by this section.

(b) Each limited liability company, domestic or foreign, that delivers for filing to, files, or causes to be filed with the director any record, statement, or other document required by this chapter which is known to the limited liability company to be false in any material respect, shall be guilty of a class C felony.

(c) Any person who signs or certifies as correct any record, statement, or other document filed pursuant to this chapter, knowing the same to be false in any material respect, shall be guilty of a class C felony.

(d) Any person who negligently but without intent to defraud signs or certifies as correct any record, statement, or other document filed pursuant to this chapter, which is false in any material particular, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500.

(e) Each domestic or foreign limited liability company that knowingly fails or intentionally refuses to answer truthfully and fully within the time prescribed by this chapter interrogatories directed to the limited liability company by the director in accordance with this chapter shall be guilty of a class C felony.

(f) Any manager or member of a domestic or foreign limited liability company who knowingly fails or intentionally refuses within the time prescribed by this chapter to answer truthfully and fully interrogatories directed to the manager or member of a limited liability company by the director in accordance with this chapter shall be guilty of a class C felony.

(g) A person has "knowledge" of a fact within the meaning of this section not only when the person has actual knowledge, but also when the person has knowledge of the other facts as in the circumstances showing bad faith. [L 1996, c 92, pt of ยง1]