---
hrs_structure:
  division: '3'
  volume: '12'
  title: 30a
  chapter: '560'
  section: '560:5-106'
type: hrs_section
tags:
  - Property
  - Family
menu:
  hrs:
    identifier: HRS_0560-0005-0106
    parent: HRS0560
    name: '560:5-106 Subject matter jurisdiction'
weight: 85315
title: Subject matter jurisdiction
full_title: '560:5-106 Subject matter jurisdiction'
---
**§560:5-106 Subject matter jurisdiction.** This article applies to, and the court has jurisdiction over, guardianship and related proceedings for individuals domiciled or present in this State, protective proceedings for individuals domiciled in or having property located in this State, and property coming into the control of a guardian or conservator who is subject to the laws of this State.

(1) Circuit court jurisdiction. The circuit court shall have concurrent jurisdiction over guardianships and related proceedings concerning incapacitated adults. The circuit court shall not have jurisdiction over guardianships and related proceedings concerning minors. The circuit court shall have exclusive jurisdiction over conservatorship proceedings and those proceedings under part 4 of this article, for both adults and minors;

(2) Family court jurisdiction. The family court shall have exclusive jurisdiction over guardianships and related proceedings concerning minors and concurrent jurisdiction over guardianship and related proceedings concerning incapacitated adults. The family court shall have exclusive jurisdiction over guardianship proceedings concerning minors, regardless of whether the proceeding is based upon the minor's age or the minor's status as an incapacitated person; and

(3) Consolidation of proceedings regarding same person. Where protective and guardianship proceedings relating to the same person have been initiated, they may be consolidated in the court as the court in the exercise of its discretion shall determine. [L 2004, c 161, pt of §1]

Cross References

Effect of L 2004, c 161 amendments, see §560:8-301.

Case Notes

Family court had subject matter jurisdiction to issue temporary restraining order under paragraphs (2) and (3) and §§571-8.5 and 560:1-302(b), where resolution of ward's capacity was required to be resolved, and an apparent threat of ward's removal from the court's jurisdiction was alleged. 113 H. 211, 151 P.3d 692 (2007).