---
hrs_structure:
  division: '3'
  volume: '12'
  title: 30a
  chapter: '560'
  section: '560:3-611'
type: hrs_section
tags:
  - Property
  - Family
menu:
  hrs:
    identifier: HRS_0560-0003-0611
    parent: HRS0560
    name: '560:3-611 Termination of appointment by removal; cause;'
weight: 84795
title: Termination of appointment by removal; cause;
full_title: '560:3-611 Termination of appointment by removal; cause;'
---
**ยง560:3-611** **Termination of appointment by removal; cause; procedure.** (a) A person interested in the estate may petition for removal of a personal representative for cause at any time. Upon filing of the petition, the court shall fix a time and place for hearing. Notice shall be given by the petitioner to the personal representative, and to other persons as the court may order. Except as otherwise ordered as provided in section 560:3-607, after receipt of notice of removal proceedings, the personal representative shall not act except to account, to correct maladministration, or to preserve the estate. If removal is ordered, the court also shall direct by order the disposition of the assets remaining in the name of, or under the control of, the personal representative being removed.

(b) Cause for removal exists when removal would be in the best interests of the estate, or if it is shown that a personal representative or the person seeking the personal representative's appointment intentionally misrepresented material facts in the proceedings leading to the appointment, or that the personal representative has disregarded an order of the court, has become incapable of discharging the duties of the office, or has mismanaged the estate or failed to perform any duty pertaining to the office. Unless the decedent's will directs otherwise, a personal representative appointed at the decedent's domicile, incident to securing appointment of the personal representative's self or a nominee as ancillary personal representative, may obtain removal of another who was appointed personal representative in this State to administer local assets. [L 1996, c 288, pt of ยง1]

Case Notes

As an interlocutory order, denial of petition for court order removing personal representatives was not appealable under either collateral order exception or irreparable injury exception. 83 H. 412 (App.), 927 P.2d 420.