---
hrs_structure:
  division: '3'
  volume: '12'
  title: 30a
  chapter: '560'
  section: '560:5-431'
type: hrs_section
tags:
  - Property
  - Family
menu:
  hrs:
    identifier: HRS_0560-0005-0431
    parent: HRS0560
    name: '560:5-431 Termination of proceedings'
weight: 85680
title: Termination of proceedings
full_title: '560:5-431 Termination of proceedings'
---
**ยง560:5-431 Termination of proceedings.** (a) A conservatorship terminates upon the death of the protected person or upon order of the court. Unless created for reasons other than that the protected person is a minor, a conservatorship created for a minor also terminates when the protected person attains majority or is emancipated.

(b) Within sixty days of the death of the protected person, the attainment of majority by a minor, or upon order of the court, the conservator shall file a final report and petition for discharge.

(c) On petition of a protected person, a conservator, or another person interested in a protected person's welfare, the court may terminate the conservatorship if the protected person no longer needs the assistance or protection of a conservator. Termination of the conservatorship does not affect a conservator's liability for previous acts or the obligation to account for funds and assets of the protected person.

(d) Except as otherwise ordered by the court for good cause, before terminating a conservatorship, the court shall follow the same procedures to safeguard the rights of the protected person that apply to a petition for conservatorship. Upon the establishment of a prima facie case for termination, the court shall order termination unless it is proved that continuation of the conservatorship is in the best interest of the protected person.

(e) Upon termination of a conservatorship and whether or not formally distributed by the conservator, title to assets of the estate passes to the formerly protected person or the person's successors. The order of termination shall provide for expenses of administration and direct the conservator to execute appropriate instruments to evidence the transfer of title or confirm a distribution previously made and to file a final report and a petition for discharge upon approval of the final report.

(f) The court shall enter a final order of discharge upon the approval of the final report and satisfaction by the conservator of any other conditions placed by the court on the conservator's discharge. [L 2004, c 161, pt of ยง1]