---
hrs_structure:
  division: '1'
  volume: '6'
  title: '19'
  chapter: '321'
  section: 321-193.5
type: hrs_section
tags:
  - Government
menu:
  hrs:
    identifier: HRS_0321-0193_0005
    parent: HRS0321
    name: 321-193.5 Interagency coordination
weight: 7650
title: Interagency coordination
full_title: 321-193.5 Interagency coordination
---
**[ยง321-193.5] Interagency coordination.** (a) The department of public safety, Hawaii paroling authority, judiciary, department of health, department of human services, and any other agencies assigned oversight responsibilities for offender substance abuse treatment by law or administrative order, shall establish a coordinating body through an interagency cooperative agreement to oversee the development and implementation of offender substance abuse treatment programs in the State to ensure compliance with the intent of the master plan developed under chapter 353G. The coordinating body shall also include a representative from a community based prisoner advocacy group and a substance abuse treatment provider selected by the director of health, and an ex-offender selected by the director of public safety subject to the approval of the chairperson of the Hawaii paroling authority and the chief justice. The coordinating body shall meet not less than quarterly in a meeting subject to chapter 92\. The interagency cooperative agreement shall set forth the role of the coordinating body and the responsibilities of each agency that is a party to the agreement.

(b) The department of health shall be the lead agency for interagency coordination of substance abuse treatment. As the lead agency, the department shall act as facilitator of and provide administrative support to the coordinating body.

(c) Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary, any agency that is part of the interagency cooperative agreement shall provide, upon the request of any other participating agency, all medical, psychological, or mental health records of any offender receiving supervision or treatment while under custody of the State. Any participating agency receiving such records of any offender receiving supervision or treatment while under custody of the State, shall keep that information confidential in accordance with the requirements of 42 United States Code section 290dd-2\. [L 2002, c 161, ยง2]

Note

Annual report on interagency cooperative agreement. L 2002, c 161, ยง10.