---
hrs_structure:
  division: '4'
  volume: '13'
  title: '33'
  chapter: '626'
  section: '626:1-806'
type: hrs_section
tags:
  - Court
  - Judicial Proceeding
menu:
  hrs:
    identifier: HRS_0626-0001-0806
    parent: HRS0626
    name: Chapter 626 Hawaii Rules of Evidence
weight: 35380
title: Hawaii Rules of Evidence
full_title: Chapter 626 Hawaii Rules of Evidence
---
**Rule 806 Attacking and supporting credibility of declarant.** When a hearsay statement has been admitted in evidence, the credibility of the declarant may be attacked, and if attacked may be supported, by any evidence which would be admissible for those purposes if declarant had testified as a witness. Evidence of a statement or conduct by the declarant at any time, inconsistent with the declarant's hearsay statement, is not subject to any requirement that the declarant may have been afforded an opportunity to deny or explain. If the party against whom a hearsay statement has been admitted calls the declarant as a witness, the party is entitled to examine the declarant on the statement as if under cross-examination. [L 1980, c 164, pt of ยง1; gen ch 1985]

RULE 806 COMMENTARY

This rule is identical with Fed. R. Evid. 806 except that the phrase, "or a statement defined in Rule 801(d)(2)(C), (D), or (E)," is omitted as superfluous, inasmuch as these categories of party-opponent admissions are treated in these rules as hearsay exceptions under Rule 803(a) supra. As the Advisory Committee's Note to Fed. R. Evid. 806 puts it: "The declarant of a hearsay statement which is admitted in evidence is in effect a witness. His credibility should in fairness be subject to impeachment and support as though he had in fact testified."