---
hrs_structure:
  division: '5'
  volume: '14'
  title: '37'
  chapter: '712'
  section: 712-1244
type: hrs_section
tags:
  - Crime
  - Criminal Proceeding
menu:
  hrs:
    identifier: HRS_0712-1244
    parent: HRS0712
    name: 712-1244 Promoting a harmful drug in the first degree
weight: 27255
title: Promoting a harmful drug in the first degree
full_title: 712-1244 Promoting a harmful drug in the first degree
---
**§712-1244 Promoting a harmful drug in the first degree.** (1) A person commits the offense of promoting a harmful drug in the first degree if the person knowingly:

(a) Possesses one hundred or more capsules or tablets or dosage units containing one or more of the harmful drugs or one or more of the marijuana concentrates, or any combination thereof;

(b) Possesses one or more preparations, compounds, mixtures, or substances, of an aggregate weight of one ounce or more containing one or more of the harmful drugs or one or more of the marijuana concentrates, or any combination thereof;

(c) Distributes twenty-five or more capsules or tablets or dosage units containing one or more of the harmful drugs or one or more of the marijuana concentrates, or any combination thereof;

(d) Distributes one or more preparations, compounds, mixtures, or substances, of an aggregate weight of one- eighth ounce or more, containing one or more of the harmful drugs or one or more of the marijuana concentrates, or any combination thereof; or

(e) Distributes any harmful drug or any marijuana concentrate in any amount to a minor.

(2) Promoting a harmful drug in the first degree is a class A felony. [L 1972, c 9, pt of §1; am L 1975, c 119, §1 and c 163, §6(f); am L 1979, c 105, §66; am L 1981, c 31, §2; am L 1989, c 163, §3; gen ch 1992]

Revision Note

In subsection (1)(a), (b), and (c), "or" deleted pursuant to §23G-15.

Case Notes

Subsection (1)(d) not void for vagueness with respect to hashish; statutory classification of hashish as a harmful drug did not violate equal protection. 65 H. 174, 649 P.2d 381 (1982).

Chain of custody requirements. 1 H. App. 546, 622 P.2d 620 (1981).